- [Interviewer] Okay, so let's pick up
from where we left off.
We had done the job inside the servlet and the DAO.
Now, this is the home.jsp file
on which we are going to display the order data.
But, in order to do that,
there are quite a few steps we have to do before.
One is we have to add the JSTL JAR to the build path.
Now, as I said, the java server pages tag library jar
is a separate jar.
It's not a part, directly, of the servlets or JSP API.
So, we have to do download this externally
and then put it in the build path of the project.
So, I have downloaded it already,
which is on my desktop.
So, I'm just going to take that, copy it,
go to my projects lib folder.
Let's go there.
And, paste it there.
Once done, I will also require to go to properties,
go to the libraries tab of Build Path,
and add that jar in the Build Path.
So, I'm going to refer that from the lib folder.
Let's just select it, say OK,
and then, we apply the change and say OK again.
So, now the build path is absolutely set
with our JSTL tag library.
The next step will be to add the JSTL modules on JSP.
So, you cannot just start using the JSTL tags
just like that on your JSP.
What you have to do is, you have to refer those modules
individually on your JSP page.
And, that is exactly where your tag lib directive
comes in the picture.
So, there were three directives
that we had discussed about in the previous videos.
There was an include directive.
There was a page directive.
And, the third on is a tag lib directive.
So, tag lib, as the name suggests, tag libraries.
So, it's going to refer a tag library on your JSP page
and we know that there are four modules specifically
for JSTL, the core, the xml, the fmt, and sql.
So, each of these modules will have
to be included on the JSP individually.
The syntax of all of that has been given on the slide
so, let's pick up the core module first.
This one.
Let's take this, copy this, and go to our Eclipse.
And, usually, the inclusion
of the tag library's right at the top.
So, just after the DOCTYPE html,
you can just paste out that line.
So, what does this mean?
This, of course, indicates that it is a taglib directive.
This is the uri's, the location
where the core module of JSTL resides.
And, as we discussed earlier,
the prefix is going to be decided as c.
So, whenever you want to use a tag of the core module,
you'll have to begin with a prefix, c,
followed by the name of the tag.
Alright, so now, let's go down
and this is a section where we are
displaying the orders, line number 41.
This is the container in which there's a table
and it is going to display the orders in a tabular format.
Okay, now, what do we do?
Before this container, we need to put a condition.
The condition is, we are going to display
this division element if, and only if,
there are orders that we find in the request scope.
So, if you remember, let's go to OrderHistroy servlet.
This is that line, number 29,
on which we set the orders in the request scope.
Only if we get these orders
then, we are going to display them on the JSP.
So now, what I'm going to do is I'm going
to start using each JSTL tag on the JSP.
The first one among them will be the c if tag.
So, I'm basically putting the conditional statement.
See, had you worked with scripted and expression,
you would have to write it with the scriptlet code,
the if condition, but now, I'm using a tag for it.
So, let's see how this looks like.
On line number 42, I'm putting a c if tag
which is coming from the core module of JSTL.
So, I'm going to say angle bracket, c:if.
That's how the tag looks like.
So, I'm going to say that if I get orders
from the request scope.
Now, understand this bit,
JSTL internally uses expression language.
We already know that expression language can work
with a lot of operators;
arithmetic, relational, logical, et cetera.
So, now we are going to combine
that power of expression language inside the JSTL
and we are going to write out expressions.
So now, under test attribute, I basically have
to specify the if condition.
So, what is that if condition?
It's going to look like this.
I'm going to use an expression language for this.
I'm going to say dollar and a pair of curly braces
and I'm going to write a condition in this.
The condition is requestScope
.orders.
Now, what is this orders?
This is the key of that object
that we have set on line number 29.
Alright, so we are going to say requestScope.orders
and we are going to put a check here
which is not equal to null.
So, we are going to say that
if only you get a valid ArrayList object
out of the request scope then, we are going
to display this entire container.
So, I'm going to take the end of that c if tag
and paste it right after that div.
There you go.
So, there's a condition that we have put
and you see how simple it is
to code an if condition by using a tag.
Had you been in scriptlet, you would have
to write out that code and you would have
to open a scriptlet element and then close it
and all of that messy business.
But, this is way cleaner code
and more maintainable for sure.
Right, so now that we have put that condition,
let's go ahead, this is the div,
that's the table, and those are the headers.
The first row is, of course, the header information.
So, that's okay, but the purpose of our data
is going to sit in this row.
Right.
So, let's go ahead and start off one by one.
So, now what I'm going to do is
I have the orders ArrayList object with me.
And, that ArrayList object I'm going to iterate
over this JSP page.
And, all of this I'm going to do using the JSTL tag.
So, let's see how to do it.
On line number 54, I have c
and I have a tag for iteration which is code forEach.
Now, what all does this tag demand?
It's just a tag, right?
So, all the information you need will be
in the form of attributes.
So, the first attribute that we have to specify is items
and what are those items?
That orders ArrayList object.
So, what I want to do is I want to take that orders from here
or maybe we could just write it out here.
Let's say dollar sign, a curly pair of braces,
and then, you say requestScope
.orders.
There you go.
So, the orders data has been embedded
to the items attribute of c forEach.
Okay.
Now, we also want a temporary pointer
which points to every order object of this ArrayList.
If you recall the discussion,
this orders is an ArrayList
and each element is an order object.
Now, if you want to print the order data
or, let's say, the product name, et cetera,
we would need a temporary variable
which will be assigned for every iteration of this loop
and that variable is going to point
to every order object in that ArrayList.
So, for that, I can define one more attribute
which is called var.
And, I can say var is going to be order, let's say.
This is a name of your choice, of course.
And then, we have one more attribute
which is called varStatus
which is basically a loop tag status object
which is going to give you the current status
of the iteration.
Okay so, I'm going to take that
and I'm just going to set it to, let's say, loop.
Let's set it to loop.
Now, this forEach is not going to end here
because for every order object that is coming
out of this ArrayList, we need to generate this entire row.
So, this c forEach end tag will come
after that tr on line number 61.
Right.
So now, let's go ahead and fill up
all the data in each of the columns.
The first one is going to be the order number.
So, you look at the header.
The first header is order number
and the order number can be gotten
through this loop tag status object.
So, what I can do is I can use analytics expression
and say loop
.count.
So, if I access the count property on
that loop tag status object,
I will get the counter
starting from one.
Okay and that's exactly what I want to do.
I want to start the order numbers displayed
from one, two, three, and so on and so forth.
Alright, so that's there
and the next one is, of course, the product name
that I want to display.
So, I'm going to say order,
which is this.
Every order object is going to
temporarily sit in this variable.
So, I'm going to say order.
and now, I'm going to feed the instance variable
of that product name.
So now, in order to just recall
in case you do not remember,
this is that order bean and these are the properties.
So, you basically have to pick up the property names
from these, which are the instance variables,
and then access them on your JSP page
and that's what I did here.
Alright, let's see the next.
We have
dollar sign
and now, here we are going to say
order.
orderDate.
Okay.
And under the src attribute, the image
of the particular product in that order
is going to be displayed.
So, I'm going to say,
dollar sign, a curly pair of braces,
and I'm going to take the order object
and access the image path which is given
by this property product
img
Path.
There you go.
So, this is what we have done.
We have put an if condition.
So, this is going to be a conditional display.
This entire division element is only going
to be visible if we indeed get orders in the request scope.
Right.
So, that's the usage of c if
and then, of course, we say the huge one,
c forEach where you have a couple of attributes
to find items var.
As for varStatus, that is just to get the counter.
Okay.
So now, let's go ahead and run this application
and see the changes.
Let us login now
and enter the credentials.
We have been using the admin user
for all our demos, but feel free to register
as many users as you want on this website
and then, you can keep using different users.
So, I'm going to login and click on order history.
There you go.
You get all your orders displayed
in the form of the table
and all of it using JSTL tags.
Right.
And, don't worry if you are not too happy
with the order the tag has been displayed right there.
It's looking ugly right now.
But, we are going to definitely repair that
with the formatting module of JSTL.
Right, so we'll go over that in the next video.